# Proc

Proc determines when an ability activate, kind of like the trigger in a trigger action. The word "proc" is gamer slang for "activate", used because it's only 4 letters long.

The Proc value is not the only factor on whether ability will activate. It must pass any timeout and conditions listed in [abilites](004-Ability.md).

In content patcher, use a string value like `"Proc": "Always"` to set this value. Internally it is an [enum](~/api/TrinketTinker.Models.ProcOn.yml).

## ProcOn

- **Always**
    - Activate the ability once on equip, deactivate it on unequip. The game will unequip and reequips all trinkets on a new day, causing any `Always` effect to activate again.
- **Sync**
    - Activate the ability when another ability on the same level activates. By default this follows the first ability (index 0) and can be changed by setting `ProcSyncIndex` to a different number.
- **Footstep**
    - When the player walks around.
- **ReceiveDamage**
    - When the player is damanged.
    - Checks if damage taken is greater than `DamageThreshold`.
- **DamageMonster**
    - When the player damages a monster.
    - Checks if damage dealt is greater than `DamageThreshold`, and if `IsBomb` & `IsCriticalHit` matches the damage.
- **SlayMonster**
    - When the player slays a monster.
    - Checks if damage dealt is greater than `DamageThreshold`, and if `IsBomb` & `IsCriticalHit` matches the damage.
- **Timer**
    - When timer elapses, must set `ProcTimer` to use.
- **Trigger**
    - When the [action](https://stardewvalleywiki.com/Modding:Trigger_actions) `"mushymato.TrinketTinker_ProcTrinket"` is called.
    - If the unqualified trinket Id is given (e.g. `"mushymato.TrinketTinker_ProcTrinket MyTrinket"`), only the specified trinket's ablities will proc.
- **Warped**
    - When the player warps/moves to another map.
- **Interact**
    - Activate when the player presses the [configured keybinding](009-User%20Configuration.md) while their bounding box overlaps with the companion's bounding box.

